alright so continuing on with our
directory and file chooses let's
actually go back now we're going to
actually change this directory chooser
back to the file chooser again now we've
already seen how to show an open
dialogue which would do when the user
wants to open a file when the user wants
to save a file we actually call the show
save dialog method instead of the show
open dialogue method so let's actually
do that now
so first thing I'm going to uncomment
the file chooser we're going to comment out
the directory chooser and we're going to
do....
...
...now if you actually run this
i'm going to open the save dialog as you
can see there and on a mac which is a
little bit different to the how the pc
and linux will work i can actually
choose a folder like my desktop i can
then expand it out and I can go to
sub folder like test and I could save it
in there i can save it as...
click on save and you can see that the
entire path has been now is showing
there in the output so that's the path
that has come back from the chooser if
you just open that again notice here
also it's not open this time but its
save and that should be the same both
for linux and windows as well
now depending on the operating system
that you're running on your might
also get a type field underneath the
file name now i haven't actually got that
here I don't see a file type i can see
tags but on windows or linux you'll
actually see the type fjeld and the file name
and that looks like a combo box and
right now that combo box is actually
empty and typically an application will
deal with files of a certain type and so
that it will actually expect to save
files with a specific file extension
that type fie food will display the file
extension or extensions that the
application knows about now the field
isn't displaying anything because we
have to set the extensions when
configuring the file chooser and again
this is applicable depending on which
operating system you're actually running
on but we can still do that on a mac so
go back and do this and this will work
on all operating systems we can actually
set the file chooses extension filters
so let's actually go ahead and actually
do that we do that by calling or get
the filters first by
calling get extension filters and then
we're going to add to those extensions
filters to the existing list so lets
actually go and have a look at how to
do that so...
...
..
...and our file
...
statement..
...and our file
...alright so now that
statement..
we've done that you should be able to
...alright so now that
run this so lets actually see what gives
we've done that you should be able to
us open now this time we've got the
run this so lets actually see what gives
the file name and tags as the where before
us open now this time we've got the
but notice this is actually showing
the file name and tags as the where before
now we've got text and PDF and depending on
but notice this is actually showing
your operating system this will show my
now we've got text and PDF and depending on
show elsewhere and notice also when I'm
your operating system this will show my
doing that the actual file name is being
show elsewhere and notice also when I'm
changed automatically the end of the
doing that the actual file name is being
file extension so i can put...
changed automatically the end of the
...
file extension so i can put...
actually saves us there as the full path
...
their so openeing that again we can select either
actually saves us there as the full path
type and the file name appears and of
their so openeing that again we can select either
course we can also click on cancel
type and the file name appears and of
without to us selecting anything we get
course we can also click on cancel
the cancellation coming through
without to us selecting anything we get
alright so basically when we construct
the cancellation coming through
an instance of extension filter we
alright so basically when we construct
passed in a description of the files
an instance of extension filter we
that have the file extension as the
passed in a description of the files
first parameter and the file extension
that have the file extension as the
as the second parameter now the
first parameter and the file extension
description is a string as you saw there
as the second parameter now the
in the code and I'll just that on
description is a string as you saw there
the screen now the code on line 44 so
in the code and I'll just that on
the descriptions are string as i
the screen now the code on line 44 so
mentioned so you can be more than one
the descriptions are string as i
word there and you saw that the type
mentioned so you can be more than one
field gives you an option to select the
word there and you saw that the type
type and again as I mentioned a few
field gives you an option to select the
times this will look slightly different
type and again as I mentioned a few
on Windows and Linux but essentially
times this will look slightly different
it's the same concept in that you can
on Windows and Linux but essentially
now choose the type of file that
it's the same concept in that you can
you would be willing to save another
now choose the type of file that
thing to note is its
you would be willing to save another
important to know that the user is
thing to note is its
limited to file names that have one of
important to know that the user is
the extensions so in other words i can
limited to file names that have one of
still go back and run this again open
the extensions so in other words i can
now we can select PDF or whatever
still go back and run this again open
I can change that to something else like
now we can select PDF or whatever
maybe my ext for my extension and click
I can change that to something else like
on save and we can get that path their but
maybe my ext for my extension and click
note in the case of the mac it's
on save and we can get that path their but
automatically appended the PDF that you
note in the case of the mac it's
will just do that just to confirm we're
automatically appended the PDF that you
going back to actually check this again
will just do that just to confirm we're
text leave it on text and I put Tim there you
going back to actually check this again
can click on that if you wanted to hide the
text leave it on text and I put Tim there you
extension click on save and we've now got
can click on that if you wanted to hide the
still the file name but with the dot txt
extension click on save and we've now got
added to the end so closing
still the file name but with the dot txt
it down so what's the use so of these
added to the end so closing
file extensions why would we want to
it down so what's the use so of these
actually use that these extensions
file extensions why would we want to
filters well file extension
actually use that these extensions
filters are useful because they limit
filters well file extension
the files that the user sees now obviously
filters are useful because they limit
we're using a saved dialogue at the
the files that the user sees now obviously
moment but in the case of an open
we're using a saved dialogue at the
dialogue we can actually limit the files
moment but in the case of an open
that the user sees which can be
dialogue we can actually limit the files
convenient for the user
that the user sees which can be
when the file chooser is displaying a
convenient for the user
directory with lots of files now when
when the file chooser is displaying a
filters are set the file choose will only
directory with lots of files now when
show files that have an extension that
filters are set the file choose will only
matches the filter so basically we're in
show files that have an extension that
this case where I am about to show you i'm
matches the filter so basically we're in
just gonna run this one more time
this case where I am about to show you i'm
what we'll do first is will change
just gonna run this one more time
this let's get to change this out so
what we'll do first is will change
we're going to temporarily stop the
this let's get to change this out so
filters comment those out we're going to
we're going to temporarily stop the
change the chooser from...
filters comment those out we're going to
....I'm going to run
change the chooser from...
that again back to main so we can run it
....I'm going to run
open at the moment we've go this
that again back to main so we can run it
test folder we've got a zip file and mp4
open at the moment we've go this
and a PDF file lets actually cancel
test folder we've got a zip file and mp4
out of that and will close the code down
and a PDF file lets actually cancel
and we'll go back and we'll change this
out of that and will close the code down
now and will uncomment this again what
and we'll go back and we'll change this
we'll do is we're going to put zip
now and will uncomment this again what
...
we'll do is we're going to put zip
just run this again and now when we open
...
the dialogue should only see files of
just run this again and now when we open
type zip now depending on your operating
the dialogue should only see files of
system in the case of a mac now that we
type zip now depending on your operating
specified zip and PDF only will actually
system in the case of a mac now that we
highlight the files make them bold
specified zip and PDF only will actually
the ones that are part of the filter and
highlight the files make them bold
for selected zip if we go and select PDF
the ones that are part of the filter and
you notice that it highlights the
for selected zip if we go and select PDF
PDF file so it wilkl actually do either but in the
you notice that it highlights the
case of windows or linux the chooser will
PDF file so it wilkl actually do either but in the
only show files that match those
case of windows or linux the chooser will
extensions so just a slight difference
only show files that match those
in terms of the operating system but the
extensions so just a slight difference
bottom line is you can't actually select
in terms of the operating system but the
these other files in the case of the
bottom line is you can't actually select
mack when I can select that one but if I
these other files in the case of the
changes to PDF i can select the PDF and
mack when I can select that one but if I
then i can't select the other ones so
changes to PDF i can select the PDF and
bottom line here is it's a filter that
then i can't select the other ones so
you can specify and there's the file
bottom line here is it's a filter that
that actually selected and it ensures
you can specify and there's the file
that the user can only select files of
that actually selected and it ensures
that particular type
that the user can only select files of
and as an example of why you want to do
that particular type
that
and as an example of why you want to do
so what happens when the user wants to
that
open a file with an extension that
so what happens when the user wants to
doesn't match one of those filters for
open a file with an extension that
example the user might have downloaded
doesn't match one of those filters for
file when they did so they gave that
example the user might have downloaded
file a name with an extension that
file when they did so they gave that
doesn't match any filters when they want to
file a name with an extension that
open that file in the application they
doesn't match any filters when they want to
could type the filename into the filename
open that file in the application they
field because the filters don't
could type the filename into the filename
prevent them from opening files with
field because the filters don't
other file extensions but that's not
prevent them from opening files with
really as convenient for the user to type
other file extensions but that's not
the name so it's customary in that
really as convenient for the user to type
situation to include a catchable filter
the name so it's customary in that
with the open file chooser case the
situation to include a catchable filter
worst that can happen is the user will try to
with the open file chooser case the
open an unsupported
worst that can happen is the user will try to
file in a real-world application we
open an unsupported
could gracefully handle that case so
file in a real-world application we
here's what i mean by that lets actually
could gracefully handle that case so
look at the code for that controller so
here's what i mean by that lets actually
that scenario with that third file type
look at the code for that controller so
we add a new extension filter
that scenario with that third file type
...
we add a new extension filter
and if we run that click on open again
...
we've not got all files you can see
and if we run that click on open again
in the case of the mac I actually got
we've not got all files you can see
all three files available now i can
in the case of the mac I actually got
click on that folder that I couldn't access
all three files available now i can
previously and open the mp4 so
click on that folder that I couldn't access
that's the catch all filter that just
previously and open the mp4 so
added to our file chooser the other thing
that's the catch all filter that just
to note here with the chooser is that
added to our file chooser the other thing
we're not actually limited to one
to note here with the chooser is that
extension so what I mean by that is lets just
we're not actually limited to one
say we decide to add 1.....
extension so what I mean by that is lets just
...
say we decide to add 1.....
...so we can do something like
...
...and now if we run that
we opened again we can choose all image
files if their were image files their of which
their none they would be selected
whether it's a jpeg jpg PNG or gif file
so one last thing about file
choosers and when we want the user to be
able to select more than one file we
open the file chooser using the show open
multiple dialogue method because it
actually returns a list of files so i go
back and just run this again open going
to select all files and i can select a
mac i can hold down command to selected
an additional file or its
control on a windows machine or linux
machine is not allowing me
to do that so if I close this down and instead
of going back to controller instead of
the show open dialogue its show open
multiple dialogue and notice how its the
returning a list of file so i can
change the definition there to list...
...
...try running this
now
open this time i'm going to select all
files and i can select all three files
just to see what it returns and you can
see we've got the path to the three
files that have been selected return to
us so that we can work with multiple files
if that's something that's appropriate
for your application
alright the last thing I want to cover
now in this whirlwind tour this section is
the internet or more specifically how to
view web pages from within the javafx
application now client applications
often access the web for example
sometimes clicking a help item will open
the system's default browser and
navigate to online help i'm going to
take a look here at two controls to
javafx controls the hyperlink and the
webview so lets actually start with the
hyperlink control and I'm guessing you
can probably figure out what that does
by its name so it descends from the
labeled class so displays text but we
use it when we want to display a link
going to add one to our grid pane so
let's go back to sample .fxml
will actually add one of these
hyperlinks and just add it below the label
that's going to be...
...
just run that to see that it works so I
can see here we've got the javafx.com and
notice when my mouse goes over it it
did actually changes to a link and
notice also the styling will change as
well
the texts is underlined as links often are or
usually are in a browser but
the moment we click the link though you
can see that there's a notification that
we have clicked it but nothing is
actually happening we don't actually go to the
webpage but you can see there that the
hyperlinks appearance has changed though
and that's because the hyperlink
controls got three states unvisited
clicked and visited and the appearance
of each state is different now if we
want the appearance of a visited
hyperlink to revert back to that to a
unvisited hyperlink we can call the set
visited
method and pass in the value of
false now to have something happen when we
click the link we still would have to
write an event handler and what that
should tell you is that we don't have to
go to a web page when a hyperlink
controller is clicked we could instead open
a dialogue or change something on the
user interface or perhaps display
contextual help within the application
basically we can do whatever we want in
that event handler to see how to do
something like that let's close it down
and let's go back to our controller
will go back to the fxml first will
actually add an on-action so that
we can actually see that operation so
put....
...
ok back here we're going to...
....
...
...just try
running that click on the link this time
and you can see that our event handlers
showing...so what
do we actually want to do here well we want to
show the web page located at www javafx
.com we can do this in two ways we can
open the system default browser or
alternatively we can actually add a web
view controller to our user interface
and display the contents of the web page
within the webview lets actually first
view the webpage by opening the system's
default browser
so go back and change the code for that so
what we'll do is we'll put a try in their
and do...
...
so now if we go back and run this click
on the link and off-screen that link
actually opened and this is the page was
actually opened and actually forwarded
it to oracle.com and because if we go to www
....it forwards to that
page
clearly the link work fine alright so
now we know how to visit a web page
using the system's default browser let's
actually look at how to display the
contents of a web page within the
application using the webview control so
let's actually go back to our code to our
fxml file lets actually start by
adding a webview control to the grid
pane we will add it in the fifth row and we're
going to do....
...
you can see there's some evidence that
something there but i we can't really
see much at the moment certainly there's
no output but we haven't told it to do
anything now depending on your operating
system if you're running Windows or
Linux you may not actually see anything
because of the colors because that's
because the default background color
of a webview is white and it doesn't
have a border but on a Mac because of
the way they do the coloring you can
actually see that but you probably find
that you won't see anything and your
running those operating systems but we can
then do is go back and add a reference
for our web view to our controllers so
going to write the code first...
...
...so now we run that
click on the link you can see it's
trying to load and obviously we can
expand a little bit further but we actually
got now a workable link we can actually
navigate as we would normally do a
regular browser which is pretty cool alright I will
just close it down so that web
engine is the powerhouse that does that
drives the display of the webpage and we
can actually do a lot with it gives us
access to the web pages document
model and we can even use that to
execute JavaScript and what I suggest
you do if you're interested in that is
referred to the documentation for web
engine and i'll just bring that up on
the screen very useful to check that out
and find out more about that
alright so that actually concludes our
tour of a few more javafx features and
obviously i still haven't covered
everything possible with that java fx
has to offer because it's so
comprehensive but I think you'll agree
we've covered a lot of the basics and
then some
so moving on in the next video we're
gonna make a start on checking out scene
builder now to date what we've done is
we've focused on using FXML and creating
that manually but scene builder does it
allows you to use sort of a
drag-and-drop principle to create screen
design which is obviously going to be a
lot easier than knowing
fxml so let's start looking at that in
the next video